IBX-6742: Recent activity PHP API (#2159)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/administration/recent_activity/recent_activity.md

The "Activity Log / Read" policy should be given to every roles having access to the Back Office,
at least with the "Only own log" owner limitation,
to allow them to use the "Recent activity" block in the default dashboard or their custom dashboard.

> This policy is also required by user having a profile to view this profile with its activity log.

Reviewer: Personally, I think the order of statements should be reversed.

```suggestion
This policy is required to view activity log in user profile, if profile is enabled.
```

This way the statements go from most important parts first, into a description that clarifies the conditions.

Author: Done in 30d4fd1d3caf4fc64520e35f3590bafd016516a5

### Searching in the Activity Log groups

You can search among the activity log entry groups using `ActivityLogService::findGroups` by passing an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Query`.
This `Query`'s constructor has four arguments:

1. `$criteria`: an array of criterion from `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Criterion` related as a logical AND.
2. `$sortClauses`: an array of `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\SortClause`.
3. `$offset`: a zero-based index integer indicating at which group to start, its default value is `0` (zero, nothing skipped).
4. `$limit`: an integer as the maximum returned group count, default is 25.

See [Activity Log Search Criteria reference](activity_log_criteria.md) and [Activity Log Search Sort Clauses reference](activity_log_sort_clauses.md) to discover query possibilities.

In the following example, log groups containing at least one creation of a Content item is displayed in terminal, with a maximum of 10 groups within the last hour.
This uses the default `admin` user to have the [permission](#permission-and-security) to list everyone entries.

> ```php hl_lines="36-40"

Author: TODO: Fix the `Query` highlight since lines have moved done.

## PHP API

The `ActivityLogService` PHP API can be used to browse activity logs and write new entries.

### Searching in the Activity Log groups

You can search among the activity log entry groups using `ActivityLogService::findGroups` by passing an `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Query`.
This `Query`'s constructor has four arguments:

> 1. `$criteria`: an array of criterion from `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Criterion` related as a logical AND.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `$criteria`: an array of criteria from `Ibexa\Contracts\ActivityLog\Values\ActivityLog\Criterion` combined as a logical AND.
```

- `my_feature`
    - `init`
    - `create`
    - `publish`
    - `simulate`
    - `complete`

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 56, 76) =]]
```

Context groups can't be nested.
If a new context is prepared while a context is already grouping log entries, this new context will be ignored.
To start a new context, make sure to previously dismiss the existing one.

As the context are not really user-friendly, by default, contexts are not shown in the Back Office.
A context group is folded below its first entry.

#### List

To display your log entry, if your object's PHP class isn't already covered, you'll have to:

* implement `ClassNameMapperInterface` to associate the class name with an identifier,
* eventually create a `PostActivityListLoadEvent` subscriber if you need to load the object for the template,
* create a template to display this class log entries.

You can have a template:

* specific to an action on an identifier and placed in `templates/themes/<theme>/activity_log/ui/<identifier>/<action>.html.twig`

> * specific to an identifier and placed in `templates/themes/<theme>/activity_log/ui/<identifier>.html.twig`

Reviewer 2: I'd swap both entries as the second one is less specific.

Author: Reordered in 1c47a199f8d8e38f3d0427c9fa179f678c90b718

Template existence is tested in this order.
For the same identifier, you could have specific templates for few actions, and a default one for the remaining actions.

> Your template can extend `@ibexadesign/activity_log/ui/default.html.twig` and only redefine the `activity_log_description_widget` block for your objects. This default template is itself used if no template is found for the identifier and the action, or the identifier alone. The built-in default template has an empty `activity_log_description_widget` block and display nothing for unknown objects.

Reviewer 2: I'd change the information order a bit here. I'd first explain that there is a default template, tell what it displays, and where it is located.

Then I'd explain how it can be overridden.

Author: Reordered in 1c47a199f8d8e38f3d0427c9fa179f678c90b718

@bdunogier Is it better?

First, follows an example of a default template overriding the one from the bundle. It can be used at development time as a fallback for classes not yet mapped.

``` twig
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/templates/themes/admin/activity_log/ui/default.html.twig') =]]
```

Here is an example of a `ClassNameMapperInterface` associating the class `App\MyFeature\MyFeature` with the identifier `my_feature`:

``` php
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/ActivityLog/ClassNameMapper/MyFeatureNameMapper.php') =]]
```

> This mapper is also providing a translation for the class name in the Filters menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mapper also provides a translation for the class name in the Filters menu.
```
?

#### Context group

If you log several entries at once, you can group them into a context.
A context group counts as one item in regard to `activity_logs_limit` configuration and `ActivityLogService::findGroups`'s `$limit` argument.

To open a context group, use `ActivityLogService::prepareContext` which has 2 arguments:

* `$source` is describing (usually through a short identifier) what is triggering the set of actions. For example, some already existing source are `web` (like for actions from the Back Office), `graphql`, `rest` and `migration`.
* `$description` is an optional more specific contextualisation. For example, `migration` context source is associated with the migration file name in its context description.

To close a context group, use `ActivityLogService::dismissContext`.

In the following example, several actions are logged into one context group, even actions triggered by cascade outside the piece of code:

- `my_feature`
    - `init`
    - `create`
    - `publish`
    - `simulate`
    - `complete`

``` php

> [[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 56, 76) =]]

Author: ```suggestion
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 53, 73) =]]
```

> [[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 53, 73) =]]

Author: ```suggestion
[[= include_file('code_samples/recent_activity/src/Command/ActivityLogContextTestCommand.php', 63, 83) =]]
```
